JDB(1)                           JDK Commands                           JDB(1)

NAME
       jdb - find and fix bugs in Java platform programs

SYNOPSIS
       jdb [options] [classname] [arguments]

       options
              This  represents  the jdb command-line options.  See Options for
              the jdb command.

       classname
              This represents the name of the main class to debug.

       arguments
              This represents the arguments that  are  passed  to  the  main()
              method of the class.

DESCRIPTION
       The  Java  Debugger  (JDB)  is  a simple command-line debugger for Java
       classes.  The jdb command and its options call the JDB.  The  jdb  com‐
       mand  demonstrates the Java Platform Debugger Architecture and provides
       inspection and debugging of a local or remote JVM.

START A JDB SESSION
       There are many ways to start a JDB session.  The most  frequently  used
       way  is to have the JDB launch a new JVM with the main class of the ap‐
       plication to be debugged.  Do this by substituting the jdb command  for
       the  java  command  in the command line.  For example, if your applica‐
       tion's main class is MyClass, then use the following command  to  debug
       it under the JDB:

              jdb MyClass

       When  started  this  way,  the  jdb command calls a second JVM with the
       specified parameters, loads the specified class, and stops the JVM  be‐
       fore executing that class's first instruction.

       Another  way  to use the jdb command is by attaching it to a JVM that's
       already running.  Syntax for starting a JVM to which  the  jdb  command
       attaches  when the JVM is running is as follows.  This loads in-process
       debugging libraries and specifies the kind of connection to be made.

              java -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n My‐
              Class

       You can then attach the jdb command to the JVM with the following  com‐
       mand:

              jdb -attach 8000

       8000 is the address of the running JVM.

       The  MyClass  argument  isn't specified in the jdb command line in this
       case because the jdb command is connecting to an existing  JVM  instead
       of launching a new JVM.

       There  are many other ways to connect the debugger to a JVM, and all of
       them are supported by the jdb command.  The Java Platform Debugger  Ar‐
       chitecture has additional documentation on these connection options.

BREAKPOINTS
       Breakpoints  can  be set in the JDB at line numbers or at the first in‐
       struction of a method, for example:

       • The command stop at MyClass:22 sets a breakpoint  at  the  first  in‐
         struction for line 22 of the source file containing MyClass.

       • The  command stop in java.lang.String.length sets a breakpoint at the
         beginning of the method java.lang.String.length.

       • The command stop in MyClass.<clinit> uses <clinit>  to  identify  the
         static initialization code for MyClass.

       When  a  method is overloaded, you must also specify its argument types
       so that the proper method can be selected for a breakpoint.  For  exam‐
       ple, MyClass.myMethod(int,java.lang.String) or MyClass.myMethod().

       The  clear  command  removes  breakpoints  using  the following syntax:
       clear MyClass:45.  Using the clear or stop  command  with  no  argument
       displays  a  list  of  all breakpoints currently set.  The cont command
       continues execution.

STEPPING
       The step command advances execution to the next line  whether  it's  in
       the  current stack frame or a called method.  The next command advances
       execution to the next line in the current stack frame.

EXCEPTIONS
       When an exception occurs for which there isn't a catch  statement  any‐
       where  in the throwing thread's call stack, the JVM typically prints an
       exception trace and exits.  When running under the JDB,  however,  con‐
       trol  returns  to the JDB at the offending throw.  You can then use the
       jdb command to diagnose the cause of the exception.

       Use the catch command to cause the debugged application to stop at oth‐
       er thrown exceptions, for example:  catch java.io.FileNotFoundException
       or  catch  mypackage.BigTroubleException.   Any exception that's an in‐
       stance of the specified class or subclass stops the application at  the
       point where the exception is thrown.

       The ignore command negates the effect of an earlier catch command.  The
       ignore command doesn't cause the debugged JVM to ignore specific excep‐
       tions, but only to ignore the debugger.

OPTIONS FOR THE JDB COMMAND
       When you use the jdb command instead of the java command on the command
       line, the jdb command accepts many of the same options as the java com‐
       mand.

       The following options are accepted by the jdb command:

       -help  Displays a help message.

       -sourcepath dir1:dir2:...
              Uses the specified path to search for source files in the speci‐
              fied  path.   If  this option is not specified, then use the de‐
              fault path of dot (.).

       -attach address
              Attaches the debugger to a running JVM with the default  connec‐
              tion mechanism.

       -listen address
              Waits for a running JVM to connect to the specified address with
              a standard connector.

       -listenany
              Waits  for a running JVM to connect at any available address us‐
              ing a standard connector.

       -launch
              Starts the debugged application immediately upon startup of  the
              jdb  command.   The  -launch option removes the need for the run
              command.  The debugged application is launched and then  stopped
              just  before  the  initial application class is loaded.  At that
              point, you can set any necessary breakpoints and  use  the  cont
              command to continue execution.

       -listconnectors
              Lists the connectors available in this JVM.

       -connect connector-name:name1=value1....
              Connects  to  the target JVM with the named connector and listed
              argument values.

       -dbgtrace [flags]
              Prints information for debugging the jdb command.

       -tclient
              Runs the application in the Java HotSpot VM client.

       -tserver
              Runs the application in the Java HotSpot VM server.

       -Joption
              Passes option to the JVM, where option is one of the options de‐
              scribed on the reference page for the Java application launcher.
              For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to  48  MB.   See
              Overview of Java Options in java.

       The following options are forwarded to the debuggee process:

       -v or -verbose[:class|gc|jni]
              Turns on the verbose mode.

       -Dname=value
              Sets a system property.

       -classpath dir
              Lists  directories  separated  by  colons  in  which to look for
              classes.

       -X option
              A nonstandard target JVM option.

       Other options are supported to provide alternate  mechanisms  for  con‐
       necting the debugger to the JVM that it's to debug.

JDK 17                               2021                               JDB(1)
