JMAP(1)                          JDK Commands                          JMAP(1)

NAME
       jmap - print details of a specified process

SYNOPSIS
       Note: This command is experimental and unsupported.

       jmap [options] pid

       options
              This  represents the jmap command-line options.  See Options for
              the jmap Command.

       pid    The process ID for which the information specified  by  the  op‐
              tions is to be printed.  The process must be a Java process.  To
              get  a  list  of Java processes running on a machine, use either
              the ps command or, if the JVM processes are  not  running  in  a
              separate docker instance, the jps command.

DESCRIPTION
       The jmap command prints details of a specified running process.

       Note:

       This  command  is  unsupported and might not be available in future re‐
       leases of the JDK.  On Windows Systems where the dbgeng.dll file  isn't
       present,  the  Debugging  Tools  for  Windows must be installed to make
       these tools work.  The PATH environment variable should contain the lo‐
       cation of the jvm.dll file that's used by the target process or the lo‐
       cation from which the core dump file was produced.

OPTIONS FOR THE JMAP COMMAND
       -clstats pid
              Connects to a running process and prints class loader statistics
              of Java heap.

       -finalizerinfo pid
              Connects to a running process and prints information on  objects
              awaiting finalization.

       -histo[:live] pid
              Connects to a running process and prints a histogram of the Java
              object heap.  If the live suboption is specified, it then counts
              only live objects.

       -dump:dump_options pid
              Connects  to  a  running  process  and dumps the Java heap.  The
              dump_options include:

              • live --- When specified, dumps only the live objects;  if  not
                specified, then dumps all objects in the heap.

              • format=b --- Dumps the Java heap in hprof binary format

              • file=filename --- Dumps the heap to filename

              Example: jmap -dump:live,format=b,file=heap.bin pid

JDK 17                               2021                              JMAP(1)
