JRUNSCRIPT(1)                    JDK Commands                    JRUNSCRIPT(1)

NAME
       jrunscript  - run a command-line script shell that supports interactive
       and batch modes

SYNOPSIS
       Note:

       This tool is experimental and unsupported.

       jrunscript [options] [arguments]

       options
              This represents the jrunscript command-line options that can  be
              used.  See Options for the jrunscript Command.

       arguments
              Arguments,  when  used,  follow immediately after options or the
              command name.  See Arguments.

DESCRIPTION
       The jrunscript command is a  language-independent  command-line  script
       shell.    The   jrunscript   command   supports   both  an  interactive
       (read-eval-print) mode and a batch (-f option) mode  of  script  execu‐
       tion.   By  default, JavaScript is the language used, but the -l option
       can be used to specify a different language.  By using Java to  script‐
       ing  language  communication,  the  jrunscript  command supports an ex‐
       ploratory programming style.

       If JavaScript is used, then before it evaluates a user defined  script,
       the  jrunscript  command initializes certain built-in functions and ob‐
       jects, which are documented in the  API  Specification  for  jrunscript
       JavaScript built-in functions.

OPTIONS FOR THE JRUNSCRIPT COMMAND
       -cp path or -classpath path
              Indicates where any class files are that the script needs to ac‐
              cess.

       -Dname=value
              Sets a Java system property.

       -Jflag Passes flag directly to the Java Virtual Machine where the jrun‐
              script command is running.

       -l language
              Uses  the  specified scripting language.  By default, JavaScript
              is used.  To use other scripting languages, you must specify the
              corresponding script engine's JAR file with the -cp  or  -class‐
              path option.

       -e script
              Evaluates  the specified script.  This option can be used to run
              one-line scripts that are specified completely  on  the  command
              line.

       -encoding encoding
              Specifies the character encoding used to read script files.

       -f script-file
              Evaluates the specified script file (batch mode).

       -f -   Enters interactive mode to read and evaluate a script from stan‐
              dard input.

       -help or -?
              Displays a help message and exits.

       -q     Lists all script engines available and exits.

ARGUMENTS
       If  arguments  are  present and if no -e or -f option is used, then the
       first argument is the script file and the rest  of  the  arguments,  if
       any, are passed as script arguments.  If arguments and the -e or the -f
       option are used, then all arguments are passed as script arguments.  If
       arguments -e and -f are missing, then the interactive mode is used.

EXAMPLE OF EXECUTING INLINE SCRIPTS
              jrunscript -e "print('hello world')"

              jrunscript -e "cat('http://www.example.com')"

EXAMPLE OF USING SPECIFIED LANGUAGE AND EVALUATE THE SCRIPT FILE
              jrunscript -l js -f test.js

EXAMPLE OF INTERACTIVE MODE
              jrunscript
              js> print('Hello World\n');
              Hello World
              js> 34 + 55
              89.0
              js> t = new java.lang.Thread(function() { print('Hello World\n'); })
              Thread[Thread-0,5,main]
              js> t.start()
              js> Hello World

              js>

RUN SCRIPT FILE WITH SCRIPT ARGUMENTS
       In  this example, the test.js file is the script file.  The arg1, arg2,
       and arg3 arguments are passed to the script.   The  script  can  access
       these arguments with an arguments array.

              jrunscript test.js arg1 arg2 arg3

JDK 17                               2021                        JRUNSCRIPT(1)
