GP-ARCHIVE.1(1)                  User Commands                 GP-ARCHIVE.1(1)

NAME
       gp-archive - Archive gprofng experiment data

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng archive [option(s)] experiment

DESCRIPTION
       Archive the associated application binaries and source files in a
       gprofng experiment to make it self contained and portable.

       By default, the binaries are archived as part of the data collection,
       but the application source files are not archived.  Use this tool to
       change this and afterwards archive additional components.

       This tool has to be executed on the same system where the profiling
       data was recorded.

OPTIONS
       --version
           Print the version number and exit.

       --help
           Print usage information and exit.

       -a {off | on | ldobjects | src | usedldobjects | used[src]}
           Specify  archiving  of  binaries  and  other files.  In addition to
           disable this feature (off), or enable archiving of all  loadobjects
           and  sources  (on),  the  other  choices  support  a  more  refined
           selection.

           All of these choices enable archiving,  but  the  keyword  controls
           what  exactly is selected: all load objects (ldobjects), all source
           files (src), the loadobjects  associated  with  a  program  counter
           (usedldobjects),  or  the  source  files  associated with a program
           counter (used[src]).  The default is -a ldobjects.

       -d path
           The path is the absolute path to  a  common  archive,  which  is  a
           directory  that contains archived files.  If the directory does not
           exist, then it will be created.  Files  are  saved  in  the  common
           archive directory, and a symbolic link is created in the experiment
           archive.

       -F  Force  writing, or rewriting of .archive files.  All archived files
           will be removed and recreated, except if the -n  or  -m  option  is
           used, or if the experiment is a subexperiment.

       -m regex
           Archive  only those source, object, and debug info files whose full
           path  name  matches  the  given  POSIX  compliant   regex   regular
           expression.

       -n  Archive the named experiment only, not any of its descendants.

       -q  Do  not  write  any  warnings to stderr.  Warnings are incorporated
           into the .archive file in the experiment directory.  They are shown
           in the output of the gprofng display text command.

       -r path
           This option specifies the location of a common archive.  The  value
           is the relative path to a common archive, which is a directory that
           contains  archived files.  If the directory does not exist, then it
           will be created.  Files are saved in the common archive  directory,
           and a symbolic link is created in the experiment archive.

       -s selection
           Specify   archiving  of  source  files.   The  allowed  values  for
           selection are:

           no  Do not archive any source files.

           all Archive all source and object files that can be found.

           used[src]
               Archive source and object files  for  functions  against  which
               data was recorded in the experiment, and that can be found.

           By  default,  application  source  files  are not archived into the
           experiment.  If the -s all, or -s used option is used, sources  and
           object  files  are archived.  These options also ensure that source
           files are available in the experiment, even if the original  source
           files have been modified, or are inaccessible afterwards.

           In  case archive files cannot be found, use the addpath, or pathmap
           command, or both, in an .er.rc file to specify the location of  the
           missing file(s).

NOTES
       -   Archiving  of  application  binaries  -  By  default,  binaries are
           archived automatically when an  experiment  is  created.   However,
           archiving   does  not  occur  in  one  or  more  of  the  following
           circumstances:

           •   If the profiled  application  is  terminated  before  it  exits
               normally.

           •   If a running process is profiled.

           •   If  archiving  is  explicitly  disabled  when  profiling.   For
               example by using the -a off option on gprofng collect app.

           In these cases, gprofng archive must be run  manually  and  on  the
           same machine where the profiling data was recorded.

           Archiving of experiment data during the data collection process can
           be   quite  expensive.   Especially  if  the  experiment  has  many
           descendant processes.  In such cases, a more efficient strategy  is
           to  use  the  -a  off  option  when  collecting the data.  Once the
           collection has completed, the data can be archived using the -s all
           option.  This  saves  all  executables  and  source  files  in  the
           experiment.

           If  during  the  archiving  there  is  an  error  message  that  an
           executable, or source file cannot be found, the addpath command  to
           add  the  path to the missing file(s) can be included in the .er.rc
           file.  After this command has been added,  archive  the  experiment
           again.   The  archiving  archiving can be repeated as many times as
           necessary to archive all files.

           Archiving should be done on the same system as was used to  collect
           the  experiment.  If some files cannot be accessed from this system
           (e.g.  sources or object files), then additional archiving  can  be
           done  using  another system that can access them.  For example, the
           system where the application was built.

           Some Java applications store  shared  objects  in  jar  files.   By
           default,  such  shared  objects are not automatically archived.  To
           archive shared objects contained in jar files, make sure to include
           the addpath command in an .er.rc file.  The addpath command  should
           give  the path to the jar file, including the jar file itself.  The
           .er.rc file  should  be  saved  in  the  user  home  directory,  or
           experiment parent directory.

       -   Archiving  of  application sources - By default, application source
           files are not archived in  the  experiment.   Execute  the  gprofng
           archive  command  with  the  -s  all,  or  -s  used  option on each
           experiment to store source files in the experiment.

       -   Automatic archiving of application sources -  Environment  variable
           GPROFNG_ARCHIVE  may  be  set to automatically archive sources when
           the  experiment  has  completed.   This  environment  variable  can
           contain  -s  and  -m  arguments,  as pairs of argument and options,
           separated by one or more blanks.

           If more than one -s argument appears on the command line, the  last
           one prevails.  If -s is both passed on the command line, and set by
           the  environment variable, the option from the environment variable
           prevails.

           Note that in case automatic source archiving during data collection
           has been enabled using either the GPROFNG_ARCHIVE variable, or  the
           -a  src,  or  -a  usedsrc option, it is recommended to confirm that
           source files have been correctly resolved by executing the  gprofng
           archive -s all, or gprofng archive -s used command.

       -   The -d and -r options are mutually exclusive.

       -   When   using   the   -d   or   -r   option,   environment  variable
           GPROFNG_ARCHIVE_COMMON_DIR can be used to specify the  location  of
           the  common  archive.   This  can  be  very convenient when using a
           script to profile applications.

       -   If more than one -s  option  is  given  on  the  command  line,  or
           specified in the environment variable, the specified option for all
           must be the same.  If not, gprofng archive exits with an error.

       -   This  tool  does  not  work  on  experiments  recorded with earlier
           versions of the tools.  If invoked on such experiments,  a  warning
           is  printed.   Use  the  version  of  gprofng archive from the same
           release with which the experiment was recorded.

SEE ALSO
       gprofng(1), gp-collect-app(1),  gp-display-gui(1),  gp-display-html(1),
       gp-display-src(1), gp-display-text(1)

       The  user  guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
       info and gprofng programs are correctly  installed,  the  command  info
       gprofng should give access to this document.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2022-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission  is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version  1.3  or
       any  later  version  published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with  no  Back-Cover
       Texts.   A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
       Free Documentation License".

binutils-2.42                     2025-12-03                   GP-ARCHIVE.1(1)
