GP-DISPLAY-TEXT.1(1)             User Commands            GP-DISPLAY-TEXT.1(1)

NAME
       gp-display-text - Display the performance data in plain text format

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng display text [option(s)] [commands] [-script script-file]
       experiment(s)

DESCRIPTION
       Print a plain text version of the various displays supported by
       gprofng.

       The input consists of one or more experiment directories.  Through
       commands, the user controls the output.

       There is a rich set of commands to control the display of the data.
       The NOTES section lists the most common ones.  The gprofng user guide
       lists all the commands supported.

       Commands specified on the command line need to be prepended with the
       dash ('-') symbol.

       In this example, a function overview will be shown, followed by the
       source code listing of function my-func, annotated with the performance
       metrics that have been recorded during the data collection and stored
       in experiment directory my-exp.er:

               $ gprofng display text -functions -source my-func my-exp.er

       Instead of, or in addition to, specifying these commands on the command
       line, commands may also be included in a file called the script-file.

       Note that the commands are processed and interpreted from left to
       right, so the order matters.

       If this tool is invoked without options, commands, or a script file, it
       starts in interpreter mode.  The user can then issue the commands
       interactively.  The session is terminated with the exit command in the
       interpreter.

OPTIONS
       --version
           Print the version number and exit.

       --help
           Print usage information and exit.

       -script script-file
           Execute  the  commands stored in the script file.  This feature may
           be combined with commands specified at the command line.

NOTES
       Many commands are supported.  Below, the more common ones are listed in
       mostly alphabetical order, because sometimes it is more logical to swap
       the order of two entries.

       There are many more commands.  These are documented in the user guide.

       "callers-callees"
           In a callers-callees panel, it is shown which function(s) call  the
           target function (the callers) and what functions it is calling (the
           callees).   This  command prints the callers-callees panel for each
           of the functions, in the  order  specified  by  the  function  sort
           metric.

       "calltree"
           Display  the  dynamic  call  graph from the experiment, showing the
           hierarchical metrics at each level.

       "compare {on | off | delta | ratio}"
           By default, the results for multiple  experiments  are  aggregated.
           This  command  changes this to enable the comparison of experiments
           for certain views (e.g. the function view).  The  first  experiment
           specified  is  defined  to be the reference.  The following options
           are supported:

           "on"
               For each experiment specified on the command  line,  print  the
               values  for  the  metrics  that  have  been  activated  for the
               experiment.

           "off"
               Disable the comparison of experiments.  This is the default.

           "delta"
               Print the values for the reference experiment.  The results for
               the other experiments are shown as  a  delta  relative  to  the
               reference (current-reference).

           "ratio"
               Print the values for the reference experiment.  The results for
               the  other  experiments  are  shown  as a ratio relative to the
               reference (current/reference).

       "disasm function-name"
           List the source code and instructions for the  function  specified.
           The instructions are annotated with the metrics used.

       "fsingle function-name [n]"
           Write  a  summary  panel  for the specified function.  The optional
           parameter n is needed for those cases where several functions  have
           the same name.

       "fsummary"
           Write a summary panel for each function in the function list.

       "functions"
           Display  a  list  of all functions executed.  For each function the
           used metrics (e.g. the CPU time) are shown.

       "header"
           Shows several  operational  characteristics  of  the  experiment(s)
           specified on the command line.

       "limit n"
           Limit the output to n lines.

       "lines"
           Write  a  list  of  source  lines and their metrics, ordered by the
           current sort metric.

       "metric_list"
           Display the currently selected metrics in the function view  and  a
           list of all the metrics available for the target experiment(s).

       "metrics metric-spec"
           Define  the  metrics  to  be displayed in the function and callers-
           callees overviews.

           The metric-spec can either be the keyword default  to  restore  the
           default metrics selection, or a colon separated list with metrics.

           A  special metric is "hwc".  It automatically expands to the active
           set of hardware event counters used in the experiment(s).

           If both instructions and clock cycles have been measured, the "CPI"
           and  "IPC"  metrics  can  be  used  to  see  the  Clockcycles   Per
           Instruction and Instructions Per Clockcyle values, respectively.

           The gprofng user guide has more details how to define metrics.

       "name {short | long | mangled}[:{soname | nosoname}]"
           Specify whether to use the short, long, or mangled form of function
           names.   Optionally,  the  load object that the function is part of
           can be included in the output by adding the soname keyword.  It can
           also be ommitted (nosoname), which is the default.

           Whether there is an actual difference between these types of  names
           depends on the language.

           Note  that there should be no (white)space to the left and right of
           the colon (:).

           This option should not be confused  with  the  keyword  name  in  a
           metric  definition,  which  is  used  to  specify that the names of
           functions should be shown in the function overview.

       "overview"
           Shows  a  summary  of  the  recorded  performance  data   for   the
           experiment(s) specified on the command line.

       "pcs"
           Write  a  list of program counters (PCs) and their metrics, ordered
           by the current sort metric.

       "sort metric-spec"
           Sort the function list on the metric-spec given.

           @IndexSubentry{Sort, Reverse order}  The  data  can  be  sorted  in
           reverse  order by prepending the metric definition with a minus (-)
           sign.

           For example sort -e.totalcpu.

           @IndexSubentry{Sort, Reset to default} A  default  metric  for  the
           sort  operation  has  been  defined  and since this is a persistent
           command, this default can be restored with  "default"  as  the  key
           (sort default).

       "source function-name"
           List the source code for the function specified, annotated with the
           metrics used.

       "viewmode {user | expert | machine}"
           This  command  is  only  relevant for Java programs.  For all other
           languages supported, the viewmode setting has no effect.

           The following options are supported:

           "user"
               Show the Java call stacks for Java threads,  but  do  not  show
               housekeeping  threads.   The  function view includes a function
               called <JVM-System>.  This represents the aggregated time  from
               non-Java  threads.   In case the JVM software does not report a
               Java call stack, time is reported against the function <no Java
               callstack recorded>.

           "expert"
               Show the Java call stacks for Java threads when the  user  Java
               code  is  executed,  and  machine  call stacks when JVM code is
               executed, or when the JVM software does not report a Java  call
               stack.  Show the machine call stacks for housekeeping threads.

           "machine"
               Show  the  actual  native call stacks for all threads.  This is
               the view mode for C, C++, and Fortran.

SEE ALSO
       gprofng(1),   gp-archive(1),   gp-collect-app(1),    gp-display-gui(1),
       gp-display-html(1), gp-display-src(1)

       The  user  guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
       info and gprofng programs are correctly  installed,  the  command  info
       gprofng should give access to this document.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2022-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission  is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version  1.3  or
       any  later  version  published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with  no  Back-Cover
       Texts.   A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
       Free Documentation License".

binutils-2.42                     2025-12-03              GP-DISPLAY-TEXT.1(1)
