GP-DISPLAY-HTML.1(1)             User Commands            GP-DISPLAY-HTML.1(1)

NAME
       gp-display-html - Generate an HTML based directory structure to browse
       the profiles

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng display html [option(s)] experiment(s)

DESCRIPTION
       Process one or more experiments to generate a directory containing the
       index.html file that may be used to browse the experiment data.

OPTIONS
       --version
           Print the version number and exit.

       --help
           Print usage information and exit.

       --verbose
           Enable   verbose   mode  to  show  diagnostic  messages  about  the
           processing of the data.  By default verbose mode is disabled.

       -d [db-vol-size], --debug[=db-vol-size]
           Control the printing of run time debug information to  assist  with
           the troubleshooting, or further development of this tool.

           The  db-vol-size  parameter  controls  the output volume and is one
           from the list s, S, m, M, l, L, xl, or XL.  If db-vol-size  is  not
           set, a modest amount of information is printed.  This is equivalent
           to  select  s,  or  S.   The  volume  of  data  goes up as the size
           increases.  Note that currently l/L is  equivalent  to  xl/XL,  but
           this  is  expected  to  change in future updates.  By default debug
           mode is disabled.

       --highlight-percentage=value
           Set a percentage value in the interval [0,100] to select and  color
           code  source  lines,  as well as instructions, that are within this
           percentage of the maximum metric value(s).  The default is 90  (%).
           A value of zero disables this feature.

       -o dirname, --output=dirname
           Use  dirname  as  the  directory  name to store the results in.  In
           absence of this option, the default name is display.<n>.html.  This
           directory is created in the current directory.  The number  <n>  is
           the first positive integer number not in use in this naming scheme.
           An  existing  directory  with the same name is not overwritten.  In
           case the directory exists already, an error message is printed  and
           the tool terminates.

       -O dirname, --overwrite=dirname
           Use  dirname  as  the  directory  name to store the results in.  In
           absence of this option, the default name is display.<n>.html.  This
           directory is created in the current directory.  The number  <n>  is
           the first positive integer number not in use in this naming scheme.
           An existing directory with the same name is silently overwritten.

       -q,  --quiet
           Disable  the  display  of all warning, debug, verbose and any other
           messages.  If enabled, the  settings  for  verbose  and  debug  are
           accepted,  but  ignored.   With  this  option,  there  is no screen
           output, other than errors.  By default quiet mode is disabled.

       --nowarnings
           Disable the printing of warning messages  on  stdout.   By  default
           warning messages are printed.

NOTES
       -   The options and values are case sensitive.

       -   In this release, the option syntax has changed to be more compliant
           with other tools and commands.

           The options that used to have an on or off value only, now act as a
           switch.   The  option negates the default setting.  For example, by
           default, verbose mode is disabled.  It  is  enabled  by  using  the
           --verbose option.

           The  long  options, those starting with "--", that require a value,
           expect the "=" sign between the option and the value.

           While the previous  syntax  and  choices  are  accepted  still,  we
           strongly  recommend to change the usage of the options according to
           the new syntax and values.  At some point,  these  legacy  settings
           may no longer be accepted.

           To  assist  with  the transition, a warning message is shown if the
           legacy syntax, or value, or both, are used.

       -   The -hp option is still accepted, but it will be  deprecated  in  a
           future release.  Use the --highlight-percentage option instead.

       -   When  setting  a directory name for the HTML files to be stored in,
           make sure that umask is set to the correct access permissions.

       -   Regardless of the setting for the warning messages,  if  there  are
           warnings, they are accessible through the main index.html page.

       -   The  tool  tries  to  accumulate  as  many  warnings  and errors as
           possible, before taking action.  In  this  way,  it  is  easier  to
           address  multiple issues at once.  As a result of this approach, it
           may be that the messages do not show immediately.   In  particular,
           warnings  are  shown  towards  the end of the execution, but one or
           more errors will terminate execution before the processing begins.

SEE ALSO
       gprofng(1),   gp-archive(1),   gp-collect-app(1),    gp-display-gui(1),
       gp-display-src(1), gp-display-text(1)

       The  user  guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
       info and gprofng programs are correctly  installed,  the  command  info
       gprofng should give access to this document.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2022-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission  is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
       under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version  1.3  or
       any  later  version  published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with  no  Back-Cover
       Texts.   A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
       Free Documentation License".

binutils-2.42                     2025-12-03              GP-DISPLAY-HTML.1(1)
