LLVM-LINK(1)                         LLVM                         LLVM-LINK(1)

NAME
       llvm-link - LLVM bitcode linker

SYNOPSIS
       llvm-link [options] filename ...

DESCRIPTION
       llvm-link takes several LLVM bitcode files and links them together into
       a single LLVM bitcode file.  It writes the output file to standard out‐
       put, unless the -o option is used to specify a filename.

OPTIONS
       -f     Enable  binary  output  on  terminals.  Normally, llvm-link will
              refuse to write raw bitcode output if the  output  stream  is  a
              terminal. With this option, llvm-link will write raw bitcode re‐
              gardless of the output device.

       -o filename
              Specify  the  output  file  name.   If  filename  is  "-",  then
              llvm-link will write its output to standard output.

       -S     Write output in LLVM intermediate language (instead of bitcode).

       -d     If specified, llvm-link prints a human-readable version  of  the
              output bitcode file to standard error.

       --help Print a summary of command line options.

       -v     Verbose  mode.  Print information about what llvm-link is doing.
              This typically includes a message for each bitcode  file  linked
              in and for each library found.

       --override <filename>
              Adds  the  passed-in file to the link and overrides symbols that
              have already been declared with the definitions in the file that
              is passed in. This flag can be specified multiple times to  have
              multiple  files  act  as overrides. If a symbol is declared more
              than twice, the definition from the  file  declared  last  takes
              precedence.

       --import <function:filename>
              Specify  a  function  that should be imported from the specified
              file for linking with ThinLTO. This option can be specified mul‐
              tiple times to import multiple functions.

       --summary-index <filename>
              Specify the path to a file containing the module  summary  index
              with  the results of an earlier ThinLTO link. This option is re‐
              quired when --import is used.

       --internalize
              Internalize the linked symbols.

       --disable-debug-info-type-map
              Disables the use of a uniquing type map for debug info.

       --only-needed
              Link only needed symbols.

       --disable-lazy-loading
              Disable lazy module loading.

       --suppress-warnings
              Suppress all linker warnings.

       --preserve-bc-uselistorder
              Preserve the use-list order when writing LLVM bitcode.

       --preserve-ll-uselistorder
              Preserve the use-list order when writing LLVM assembly.

       --ignore-non-bitcode
              Do not error out when a non-bitcode file  is  encountered  while
              processing an archive.

EXIT STATUS
       If llvm-link succeeds, it will exit with 0.  Otherwise, if an error oc‐
       curs, it will exit with a non-zero value.

AUTHOR
       Maintained by the LLVM Team (https://llvm.org/).

COPYRIGHT
       2003-2024, LLVM Project

15                                2024-05-27                      LLVM-LINK(1)
