LLVM-NM(1)                           LLVM                           LLVM-NM(1)

NAME
       llvm-nm - list LLVM bitcode and object file's symbol table

SYNOPSIS
       llvm-nm [options] [filenames...]

DESCRIPTION
       The llvm-nm utility lists the names of symbols from LLVM bitcode files,
       object  files, and archives. Each symbol is listed along with some sim‐
       ple information about its provenance.  If  no  filename  is  specified,
       a.out  is  used  as the input. If - is used as a filename, llvm-nm will
       read a file from its standard input stream.

       llvm-nm's default output format is the traditional BSD nm  output  for‐
       mat. Each such output record consists of an (optional) 8-digit hexadec‐
       imal  address,  followed  by a type code character, followed by a name,
       for each symbol. One record is printed per line; fields  are  separated
       by spaces.  When the address is omitted, it is replaced by 8 spaces.

       The supported type code characters are as follows. Where both lower and
       upper-case  characters  are  listed  for the same meaning, a lower-case
       character represents a local symbol,  whilst  an  upper-case  character
       represents a global (external) symbol:

       a, A
          Absolute symbol.

       b, B
          Uninitialized data (bss) object.

       C
          Common  symbol.  Multiple definitions link together into one defini‐
          tion.

       d, D
          Writable data object.

       i, I
          COFF: .idata symbol or symbol in a section  with  IMAGE_SCN_LNK_INFO
          set.

       n
          ELF: local symbol from non-alloc section.

          COFF: debug symbol.

       N
          ELF: debug section symbol, or global symbol from non-alloc section.

       s, S
          COFF: section symbol.

          Mach-O:  absolute  symbol  or  symbol  from  a  section  other  than
          __TEXT_EXEC __text, __TEXT __text, __DATA __data, or __DATA __bss.

       r, R
          Read-only data object.

       t, T
          Code (text) object.

       u
          ELF: GNU unique symbol.

       U
          Named object is undefined in this file.

       v
          ELF: Undefined weak object. It is not a link failure if  the  object
          is not defined.

       V
          ELF:  Defined  weak object symbol. This definition will only be used
          if no regular definitions exist in a link. If multiple weak  defini‐
          tions  and no regular definitions exist, one of the weak definitions
          will be used.

       w
          Undefined weak symbol other than an ELF object symbol. It is  not  a
          link failure if the symbol is not defined.

       W
          Defined weak symbol other than an ELF object symbol. This definition
          will only be used if no regular definitions exist in a link. If mul‐
          tiple  weak definitions and no regular definitions exist, one of the
          weak definitions will be used.

       -
          Mach-O: N_STAB symbol.

       ?
          Something unrecognizable.

       Because LLVM bitcode files typically contain objects that are not  con‐
       sidered  to have addresses until they are linked into an executable im‐
       age or dynamically compiled "just-in-time", llvm-nm does not  print  an
       address  for any symbol in an LLVM bitcode file, even symbols which are
       defined in the bitcode file.

OPTIONS
       -B     Use BSD output format. Alias for --format=bsd.

       -X     Specify the type of XCOFF object file, ELF object  file,  or  IR
              object  file  input from command line or from archive files that
              llvm-nm should examine. The mode must be one of the following:

                     32     Process only 32-bit object files.

                     64     Process only 64-bit object files.

                     32_64  Process both 32-bit and 64-bit object files.

                     any    Process all the supported object files.

                 On AIX OS, the default is to process 32-bit object files only
                 and to ignore 64-bit objects. The can be changed  by  setting
                 the   OBJECT_MODE  environment  variable.  For  example,  OB‐
                 JECT_MODE=64 causes llvm-nm to process 64-bit objects and ig‐
                 nore 32-bit objects. The -X flag  overrides  the  OBJECT_MODE
                 variable.

                 On other operating systems, the default is to process all ob‐
                 ject  files: the OBJECT_MODE environment variable is not sup‐
                 ported.

       --debug-syms, -a
              Show all symbols, even those usually suppressed.

       --defined-only, -U
              Print only symbols defined in this file.

       --demangle, -C
              Demangle symbol names.

       --dynamic, -D
              Display dynamic symbols instead of normal symbols.

       --export-symbols
              Print sorted symbols with their visibility (if applicable), with
              duplicates removed.

       --extern-only, -g
              Print only symbols whose definitions are external; that is,  ac‐
              cessible from other files.

       --format=<format>, -f
              Select  an output format; format may be sysv, posix, darwin, bsd
              or just-symbols.  The default is bsd.

       --help, -h
              Print a summary of command-line options and their meanings.

       -j     Print just the symbol names. Alias for --format=just-symbols`.

       --line-numbers, -l
              Use debugging information to print the filenames and  line  num‐
              bers where symbols are defined. Undefined symbols have the loca‐
              tion of their first relocation printed instead.

       -m     Use Darwin format. Alias for --format=darwin.

       --no-demangle
              Don't demangle symbol names. This is the default.

       --no-llvm-bc
              Disable the LLVM bitcode reader.

       --no-sort, -p
              Show symbols in the order encountered.

       --no-weak, -W
              Don't print weak symbols.

       --numeric-sort, -n, -v
              Sort symbols by address.

       --portability, -P
              Use POSIX.2 output format.  Alias for --format=posix.

       --print-armap
              Print the archive symbol table, in addition to the symbols.

       --print-file-name, -A, -o
              Precede each symbol with the file it came from.

       --print-size, -S
              Show symbol size as well as address (not applicable for Mach-O).

       --quiet
              Suppress 'no symbols' diagnostic.

       --radix=<RADIX>, -t
              Specify the radix of the symbol address(es). Values accepted are
              d (decimal), x (hexadecimal) and o (octal).

       --reverse-sort, -r
              Sort symbols in reverse order.

       --size-sort
              Sort symbols by size.

       --special-syms
              Do not filter special symbols from the output.

       --undefined-only, -u
              Print only undefined symbols.

       --version, -V
              Display  the  version of the llvm-nm executable, then exit. Does
              not stack with other commands.

       @<FILE>
              Read command-line options from response file <FILE>.

MACH-O SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       --add-dyldinfo
              Add symbols from the dyldinfo, if they are not  already  in  the
              symbol table.  This is the default.

       --add-inlinedinfo
              Add symbols from the inlined libraries, TBD file inputs only.

       --arch=<arch1[,arch2,...]>
              Dump the symbols from the specified architecture(s).

       --dyldinfo-only
              Dump only symbols from the dyldinfo.

       --no-dyldinfo
              Do not add any symbols from the dyldinfo.

       -s <segment> <section>
              Dump only symbols from this segment and section name.

       -x     Print symbol entry in hex.

XCOFF SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       --no-rsrc
              Exclude resource file symbols (__rsrc) from export symbol list.

BUGS
          • llvm-nm  does  not  support  the full set of arguments that GNU nm
            does.

EXIT STATUS
       llvm-nm exits with an exit code of zero.

SEE ALSO
       llvm-ar(1), llvm-objdump(1), llvm-readelf(1), llvm-readobj(1)

AUTHOR
       Maintained by the LLVM Team (https://llvm.org/).

COPYRIGHT
       2003-2024, LLVM Project

15                                2024-05-27                        LLVM-NM(1)
