GPROFNG.1(1)                     User Commands                    GPROFNG.1(1)

NAME
       gprofng - The next generation GNU application profiling tool

SYNOPSIS
       gprofng [option(s)] action [qualifier] [option(s)] target [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This is the driver for the gprofng tools suite to gather and analyze
       performance data.

       The driver executes the action specified.  An example of an action is
       collect to collect performance data.  Depending on the action, a
       qualifier may be needed to further define the command.  The last item
       is the target that the command applies to.

       There are three places where options are supported.  The driver
       supports options.  These can be found below.  The action, possibly in
       combination with the qualifier also supports options.  A description of
       these can be found in the man page for the command.  Any options needed
       to execute the target command should follow the target name.

       For example, to collect performance data for an application called
       a.out and store the results in experiment directory mydata.er, the
       following command may be used:

               $ gprofng collect app -o mydata.er a.out -t 2

       In this example, the action is collect, the qualifier is app, the
       single argument to the command is "-o mydata.er" and the target is
       a.out.  The target command is invoked with the -t 2 option.

       If gprofng is executed without any additional option, action, or
       target, a usage overview is printed.

OPTIONS
       --version
           Print the version number and exit.

       --help
           Print usage information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables are supported:

       GPROFNG_MAX_CALL_STACK_DEPTH
           Set the depth of the call stack (default is 256).

       GPROFNG_USE_JAVA_OPTIONS
           May be set when profiling a C/C++ application that uses dlopen() to
           execute Java code.

       GPROFNG_ALLOW_CORE_DUMP
           Set  this  variable to allow a core file to be generated; otherwise
           an error report is created on /tmp.

       GPROFNG_ARCHIVE
           Use this variable to define the settings  for  automatic  archiving
           upon experiment recording completion.

       GPROFNG_ARCHIVE_COMMON_DIR
           Set this variable to the location of the common archive.

       GPROFNG_JAVA_MAX_CALL_STACK_DEPTH
           Set  the depth of the Java call stack; the default is 256; set to 0
           to disable capturing of call stacks.

       GPROFNG_JAVA_NATIVE_MAX_CALL_STACK_DEPTH
           Set the depth of the Java native call stack; the  default  is  256;
           set to 0 to disable capturing of call stacks (JNI and assembly call
           stacks are not captured).

       GPROFNG_SYSCONFDIR
           Set  the  path  to  the gprofng.rc configuration file.  By default,
           this file is  placed  in  the  etc  subdirectory  of  the  binutils
           installation  directory.   In  case  an  RPM  has been used for the
           installation, this file is in directory /etc.

           When building and installing from the source, the user can set  the
           path to this configuration file to a non-default location.  If this
           is  the case, the user may set the "GPROFNG_SYSCONFDIR" environment
           variable to point to this location.

           Otherwise,  the  gp-display-text,  gp-display-src,  and  gp-archive
           tools cannot find this file.

NOTES
       The gprofng driver supports the following commands.

       Collect performance data:

       "gprofng collect app"
           Collect application performance data.

       Display the performance results:

       "gprofng display text"
           Display the performance data in ASCII format.

       "gprofng display html"
           Generate an HTML file from one or more experiments.

       "gprofng display gui"
           Start the GUI.  Note that this tool is not available by default and
           needs to be installed seperately.

       Miscellaneous commands:

       "gprofng display src"
           Display source or disassembly with compiler annotations.

       "gprofng archive"
           Include binaries and source code in an experiment directory.

       It  is  also  possible to invoke the lower level commands directly, but
       since these are subject  to  change,  in  particular  the  options,  we
       recommend to use the driver.

SEE ALSO
       gp-archive(1),           gp-collect-app(1),          gp-display-gui(1),
       gp-display-html(1), gp-display-src(1), gp-display-text(1)

       Each gprofng command also supports the --help option.  This  lists  the
       options and a short description for each option.

       For  example this displays the options supported on the gprofng collect
       app command:

               $ gprofng collect app --help

       The user guide for gprofng is maintained as a Texinfo manual.   If  the
       info  and  gprofng  programs  are correctly installed, the command info
       gprofng should give access to this document.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2022-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify  this  document
       under  the  terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
       any later version published by the Free Software  Foundation;  with  no
       Invariant  Sections,  with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
       Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled  "GNU
       Free Documentation License".

binutils-2.42                     2025-12-03                      GPROFNG.1(1)
